[music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[music]
>> Hello [music] and welcome to another
episode of the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm
Tracy Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Wisenthal.
>> Joe, obviously there's a lot going on
right now in the Gulf. One of the things
that's been happening is that Iran, of
course, has been sending drones across
the sea and over to the UAE and hitting
various energy infrastructure assets,
but it's also been hitting some
non-energy infrastructure assets such as
hotels, you know, consulates,
residences,
>> right? Of course, um, you know, we've
seen, for example, the various strikes.
We're going to talk about Dubai
specifically in this episode. The
interesting thing about Dubai, as we
know, is there's been a lot of people
who moved there. Lots and lots of money
to say the least. But part of the appeal
there is here is an island of stability.
Not just an island. And this is what the
part that interests me.
>> Not technically an island.
>> Not technically an island. And [snorts]
not just an island of stability within
the context of the Middle East. There is
this growing perception all around the
world particularly in rich countries
where people don't like what's going on
with taxes where they don't like feel
safe about the trajectory of politics in
these countries etc. this sort of
ongoing feeling of deme deterioration of
various flavors where they're from and
it's like you know what I want to live
in a country that has low crime a high
level of stability and sort of you know
to be crude escape the failing west exit
as they say and sort of the idea of exit
loyalty and voice and so forth
>> right so this is really interesting
because in addition to styling itself as
this sort of island proverbial island of
stability They also make real islands,
right? Real islands. That's true. But
they've also styled themselves as, and
I'm stealing this from um the guest that
I will introduce in just a minute or
two, but they've styled themselves as
the capital of capital. Yeah. Right. So,
here is this region that has an enormous
amount of money from oil wealth. And a
lot of that money has been flowing into
not just real estate in the region
itself, but real estate externally in
the west. We know that there are big
sovereign wealth funds in the Middle
East and they invest in all sorts of
things lately. There's been a lot of
private debt investment um which is an
interesting one given the concerns
around uh private lending at the moment.
They've invested in famously US
treasuries, tech stocks like the UAE,
Saudi Arabia are huge huge forces when
it comes to tech valuations at the
moment. And so when you kind of start
connecting all of these things together,
you have to ask what is the situation in
Iran actually mean, not just for the
idea of Dubai and Abu Dhabi as this sort
of expat paradise, but also as this
locus of an enormous amount of money
that tends to flow around the world.
>> Absolutely. And again, like this is a
place where those with means, those with
like lots of money are feeling like this
is this is arguably the future. This is
where I want to set up shop. Ray Dalio
has a family office that's in the UAE
and so forth. And you know, historically
there have been these places, these
places where capital wants to be either
have a literal or sort of figurative
footprint. Switzerland of course long
time in that category. Singapore perhaps
similar but you have people in the west
uh you have a lot of people in the UK
and you're like you know what this is
where I'm going this is my bet on the
future right I'm betting my future the
future of my money the future of my
business somehow to be doiciled
figuratively or literally in Dubai the
UAE etc
>> there's also something that the UAE in
particular has done which is it's
achieved this sort of diplomatic or
strategic ambiguity I guess you could
say where it's a place where everyone
from the US to Russia and to some extent
Iran can do business. Right? So there's
a big question over whether that
continues at all. Anyway, we do in fact
have the perfect guest. Um I actually
think this is a really good way to look
at the sort of interconnection of global
capital and some of the gray market
stuff that happens in in the UAE is
through property and commercial property
in particular.
>> Totally. And you know, I just want to
say this is not the first time. You
know, we've talked about the UAA,
certainly we've talked about the Gulf,
but it's even prior to the last few
weeks in my mind, I've thought I want to
do more on this topic specifically. Um,
in England, it's a very big deal. It's a
very big part of the sort of news and
politics. How many of their wealthy have
left over the years to go to the UAE and
so forth? I wonder to some extent the
UAE and this I'm not I'm not the first
person to make uh this observation but
like the you know if you imagine this
place with an extraordinary amount of
abundant natural resources etc a world
in which there is an extreme and it
makes America look very pale in
comparison an extreme gap between the
halves and the have knots etc. Sometimes
I think about like, you know, is the
future of the world essentially dubified
where you have this very tiny slice of
people who are just insanely wealthy, a
kind of, you know, to use a popular
parliament, a permanent underclass
within the same thing. A place where
there a lot of these successful people
are like something you talk a lot about,
which is is the future of the economy
just like people who look really good
and so forth. No, for real. Yeah. And
you know, we know that it's a home to a
lot of influencers taking photos in
front of iconic hotels on man-made
beaches, etc. I have this feeling that
there is a version of the world that
looks like the UAE for better or worse.
So, I've just been thinking both
literally and sort of um metaphorically,
we need to understand these dynamics of
the UAE better. It's funny because when
I was in Abu Dhabi and people asked me
what it was like living there, I used to
say it's like living in Texas in the
sense that you spend a lot of time in
the shopping mall, you spend a lot of
time in your car and it's hot all the
time and you don't really see that many
people out on the street. Now I kind of
think, well, you know, maybe Abu Dhabi
is the blueprint for uh some places in
Texas. But anyway,
>> you know what I was just going to say?
Uh you know what it looks like is it
looks like Miami. And if you've spent
any time like on North Collins Avenue
and some of the architecture and hotels,
etc. there, when I've looked at some of
the recent photos, including
unfortunately one of the hotels that got
hit, I was like, this could be like this
could be a building that went up two
years ago in like somewhere in Miami
Beach. So, so much to discuss. All
right, rather than us uh spending more
time discussing this, we do in fact have
the perfect guest, someone who's been on
the podcast before talking about real
estate for the ultra wealthy and someone
who has personal connections to Dubai as
well. We're going to be speaking with
Hiten Samani. He is the founder of 1031
media and publisher of the promote. So
Hiten, thanks so much for coming back on
the podcast.
>> Hey, good to be here.
>> Would you agree with that framing? How
do you think about, you know, Dubai's
reputation in the world in recent years?
>> I think for the most part it's correct.
I would add to it. So, not only is it
styled itself as a safe haven to do
business, I think where it has probably
gone further than any country in the
modern era is cherrypicking the kind of
society that an ultra- person would
think about, too. So there's one thing
to be in Singapore and say, "All right,
make your money here, but we have a
Singaporean society that is very
specific, right? In in Abu Dhabi, Dubai,
etc., it's almost like a build your own
bear kind of society. Okay, you're a
wealthy person, come here. The only rule
is don't mess with our politics. You're
never getting involved in anything
related to any sort of democratic
debate. Outside of that, you want to
live a decadent lifestyle, we have
everything set up for you. You want to
live a pious lifestyle, it's all set up,
too. We will guarantee you safety. And
that's obviously the big asterisk why
we're talking today. We'll guarantee you
safety. We'll guarantee you an
incredibly pro business environment. And
you can kind of stitch together this
existence. I think there is no other
place in the world that has this
>> mix between the decadent and kind of the
familyfriendly life that the UAE
government has very very concertedly
created for the well-healed and
globally. And I think Tracy, you had
made a point about uh sort of all these
nationalities coming together in this
diplomatic Xanadu. It's been true
forever.
>> Yeah. It always reminded me a little bit
of like Casablanca, you know, all these
nationalities back in the day, right?
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't know what people do there. I
don't know if people work. I don't know
if anyone actually does work. The only
thing, you know, I see the Instagram
photos, etc. But like talk to us about
the scale of the influx particularly
among the global elite and to what
degree is it a real phenomenon you see
people talk about this on Twitter of
like a certain type of people who has
kind of given up on the west and they're
willing to take that tradeoff. I bet a
lot of them if you'd ask them they're
like yeah democracy is good etc like
that but they're like I you know what I
look at western democracy and it really
does not look get that good it only
looks in one direction I'm worried about
communists taking over and taking my
money I'm worried about all this and
Dubai looks like this you know oasis and
how big has that trend grown
>> sure so there's two ways to think about
it one is what you're talking about
which is sort of the chavy Right. The
chav British sense the chavy British
Instagram influencer made a bunch of
money because they were early to Salana
and Yeah.
>> Yeah. I I saw someone shoot up outside
my house on a very nice street in the
UK. I'm sick of this. I'm going to go
over to Dubai. 247 sun, no taxes, blah
blah blah. That that is obviously one
component.
>> They don't have 247 sun. I'm pretty
sure.
>> I mean, except when there's like a dust
storm, they pretty much do.
>> Okay. Okay. I'll have to figure out the
astronomy of that one, but keep going.
[laughter]
Well, they do cloud seating, too. So,
they they can mess with the weather in
ways that you're not picking up.
>> There is that cohort of sort of
disgruntled, let's say, upper middle
class to wealthy people from places like
the UK, etc. That's one class, and I
think that is culturally much more
significant than it is financially
significant. Okay. The other class and I
think the the inflection point that is
probably the most logical to take is the
Russian invasion of Ukraine. Right
around early 2022 there was this
unbelievable influx of people from uh
let's call it Russian Republic just just
for just to just to make it a little
easier kind of that area of the world.
Yeah,
>> all this money flowed in and now you
look at parts of Dubai that have been
transformed by, let's call it, Russian
wealth, right? There are parts of Dubai
that look exactly like Sunny Isles Beach
in Miami, which is Russian wealth,
Russian dominated. That's the tongue you
hear in the streets. And the culture of
it is is been,
>> you know, turned on its head very
dramatically and very rapidly. So unlike
other places, Dubai is very com I'm
going to pull up some numbers now. So
the city Dubai specifically is home to
about 3.8 million people at the moment.
I think when I was growing up there in
the '90s that was number was probably
close to 2 million and it's expected to
surge by to 5.8 million by 2040. So
you're talking about adding 2 million
people to the city in what 15 years or
so, right? That's going to be a big
>> I'm already imagining what that means
for traffic.
>> I mean it's traffic there is now kind of
a parody of itself. like there is no way
to gauge what's going on. The metros
are, you know, in in full capacity. Uh
but but it's always terrible, right? So
they they do have all these
infrastructure problems similar to what
Miami is going through now. But I think
the difference in in the UAE in general
is the government is really on it.
They're really trying to create large
scale solutions to a lot of the problems
that we have there, right? So be it
traffic, they're building roads every
single day. The the joke is that people
like my dad who grew up there are
actually the worst drivers there because
they try to go by gut and they can't
because there's always a new flyover or
new intersection etc. But uh they're
doing that with the infrastructure.
They're doing the cloud seating for the
weather. They're trying so many
different social experiments for
cohesion. There's a lot going on and I I
haven't seen a government as kind of on
it which is why where we are today is
such a is such a big question mark.
>> [music]
>> What have you seen just in terms of
property prices in Dubai in recent
years? So you mentioned the influx of
Russians. My, you know, anecdotally, I
still have friends in Dubai. They were
saying that all the rents basically went
up for residential because you had this
huge population jump. But I'm curious
also what happened with commercial
property prices.
>> I think a lot of the
sort of the explosion of growth in Dubai
can be seen can be seen in land prices.
Land prices are up by a factor of 40 to
70%. Uh and this all stems from the
super luxury boom that Dubai has seen. I
think the last time we talked a year or
change ago, I was telling you about the
super prime luxury market in Dubai,
which is globally defined by Nightfrank
as sales of $10 million or more. Dubai
is is leading the charts for a long
time. I think in Q3 they had north of $2
billion of sales just in the super prime
category. So by volume, they are the
they have the most transactions of any
market in the world in this category,
right? So because developers can get and
this is something we that is mirrored in
Manhattan for the longest time. Because
developers can get that kind of pricing
for condos and homes, they then go and
buy more more and more land. They do
some land banking and because land has
become so expensive now they're going
and getting some exotic financing for
it. So Tracy, you probably remember
covering suk and all the Islamic bond
stuff that is that is blowing up now in
uh in the real estate market. So, I
think you guys had a stat, Bloomberg had
a stat that uh dollar bond and suk
issuance has grown more than 12fold to
$6 billion since 2021.
>> Wow.
>> Wow. When I'm in Miami, and I I I love
Miami. I've never been to Dubai, but I
love Miami. I'm going to be sort of
diplomatic in my words here about when
I'm in Miami, I get this feeling that it
is a very diverse on paper city, right?
Mhm.
>> You have your Russians, you have your
other Eastern Europeans, you have your
Iranians. In fact, you have your
Israelis, you have your various uh multi
obviously Latin Americans of various
sorts, etc. There is this nominal
diversity in terms of the type of person
who get comes there and yet everyone
sort of merges into the same guy if you
know what I mean. They sort of dress the
same. They drive the same cars. They
kind of talk the same. There is this
sort of, I would say, ethnically
ambiguous Miami guy. They end up all
kind of looking the same, etc. They have
the same vibe. Is it sort of true in
Dubai? Do you have this sort of
nominally diverse population, but then
when they're there, they suddenly fuse
into Dubai guy? [laughter] Do you know
what I'm saying?
>> 100 100%.
This is Yeah, 100%. So, uh, a friend of
mine recently went to what's known as a
watch party. Okay.
>> Where it's a bunch of guys who just
sport their ice on the wrist, right? And
and that that is exactly when you go
into a party like that, you will see
people of every nationality bound by
just the love of that ice on their
wrist.
>> Yes. They have this the masquerading
love, whatever you want to call it.
>> There is this kind of Dubai type, right?
Because in a city where roots are not
really a thing for a lot of people, the
external factors become more and more
important. The car I remember vividly I
was out with friends for shisha. Uh we
were heading from a nice
I miss the shisha so much. It's probably
yeah probably better for us that we
don't smoke it all the time now. But I
remember going from a sort of a
pedestrian shisha place to a nicer
shisha place. Right. So old part of town
to new part of town etc. I remember this
friend. We went home to switch cars.
That's the only reason we went to his
place. We went to the garage.
[clears throat] We did not go inside. We
switched cars and then we went back out.
This is a very common thing that has
always been a part of Dubai.
>> The difference between what you talked
about, Joe, and what happens in Dubai is
it's not necessarily a melting pot. It
really is like
>> it is it is an it is a collection of
ethnic enclaves,
>> right? And the only thing they have in
common is that they live in Dubai, you
can spend your entire life sort of
ghettoized in your with your type of
people.
>> Interesting.
>> And and I think with so much influx that
has only become more accentuated now.
It's it's it would be silly to say, oh
yeah, you only see your type. I have
friends from all over the world. Anyone
who lives in Dubai has had that
privilege too, right? like you can t
kind of tap into any culture you want,
>> but you can also stay very uh fixated in
yours, let's say.
>> There's also a lot of racial
stratification, maybe that's the right
word, where you know, if you go into a
fancy restaurant, a lot of the people
who are like sat down will either be
Emirati or white, and all the servers
and waiters are going to come from Nepal
or India. Like that hap it's very
noticeable. Yeah, I think I think Tracy
a lot of that has changed quite a bit,
right? I think there's so much money
coming in from all parts of the world,
including South Asia, that that
hierarchy that used to be so pronounced
there is very much
>> diluted a little bit. So, you will go to
the top restaurant or top club and you
will kind of see a United Nations type
of vibe now.
>> Huh. Talk to us about what you're
hearing just on the ground in Dubai at
the moment because the information flow
is a little bit tricky. Um, the UAE
controls the information that not only
circulates domestically but also
circulates externally. So, while we have
seen some videos of drones hitting um
various buildings, it's not entirely
clear we're we're getting a really good
sense of the situation there. What are
you hearing from friends and family on
the ground?
>> So, overwhelmingly the message is that
things are okay and life is moving on. I
think anyone you talk to in the region
has a certain the information flow
problem that you kind of alluded to that
is very much a thing. Uh most people are
getting their news and information from
social media nowadays. Social media is
very tightly controlled in the UAE and
in the region in general. So a lot of us
who are you know have Dubai sort of
close to their hearts from the outside
end up seeing kind of more than we more
than the people back home do. Now there
have been certain things right there was
an attack on the airport that was major
news. Uh the government in Dubai does
send or the government in the UAE sends
out alerts and all that. That's the kind
of thing that they see. But in general
and I think this is going to be a
broader part of our conversation.
And not to make a desert pun here, but
the UAE has to project an image of an
oasis of calm and stability. Right? I I
like to say that New York is a great
city any day of the week, any weather at
all times. Los Angeles has to be on its
best, you know, best weather behavior at
all times. And there is a similar
analogy to be made at the UAE. The whole
game does not work unless it feels safe.
That is the number one thing that the
government talks about. That is the
number one thing that investors tout in
their materials when you're soliciting
investment for the UAE or convincing
someone to move your business to the
UAE. Safety is the number one thing. And
again, we don't know how how bad this
is. I I think I'd I'd like to make an
example from another neighbor of the
UAE, the Qatari energy minister. Did you
guys see that comment? I mean, that is
absolutely stunning.
>> Oh, what do you say?
>> So, the Iranians uh struck uh an LNG
facility in Qatar
>> and this about the repair time.
>> Uh no, this is about he said that it
took out 17% of Qatar's export capacity.
That is a stunning revelation to make. I
think this guy, his name is Sadal Kabi.
I think he is a little bit more
outspoken than I've seen other
government ministers, but he said they
might have to invoke force majour
contracts on exports to certain
countries. Right? That is that is the
kind of thing that should give people
pause, right? And and we're going to
talk about this in a second, but a lot
of these countries, the UAE in
particular, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait
are big big investors in the global
landscape. you mentioned, right? You go
into the nice restaurant and maybe at
this point it does have a sort of the
clientele is has this United Nations
feel but I as uh Tracy mentioned maybe
the waiter is from Nepal or somewhere
else in South Asia etc. Again there's
this meme in that the world is going to
entering what they call you know the
global permanent underclass. you have to
buy this cryptocurrency because this is
your lottery ticket out of the global
permanent underclass. You have to
whatever AI sort of are talked about in
the same language as crypto in that
respect from inside of Dubai that waiter
or the child of that waiter is there
this sense that they will always be part
of that permanent underclass and that
there is no relationship in a sort of
societal fabric between the life of that
waiter and the life of everyone that
they're serving in that restaurant.
>> Yeah, I think that that's very true. The
Horatio Alger stories in Dubai tend to
be the person who's come in and made the
life for themselves, right? The scrappy
entrepreneur who came at 30 years old
with nothing and now owns a bunch of
yachts. That is the kind of story you do
not typically see social mobility within
the city, right? So, if you are part of
what you described as the social
underclass, you tend to stay in that
role until you leave and you will always
leave, right? That that's the other part
of it.
>> Yeah. And just, you know, on your point
about business and usual, one of the
things that I like to do to sort of get
some perspective on an area is um go to
Instagram and see what the latest photos
from that area are. And it's sort of
like I've always found that to just be a
nice way of like figuring out like
>> what what is the vibe of this? What's
going on? It's still to this day, if you
look at if you try to pull up any
location in Dubai, particularly an
outdoor location, there's a good chance
that the only photos you're going to see
are you're going to see a lot of butts
in that photo, [laughter]
right? You're going to see photos of uh
women in bikinis with the Burja Khalifa
in the background or some, you know,
artificial island chain in the
background, etc. In terms of the
information coming out, it is almost no
different than I believe what gets
posted on social media is almost no
different than it would have been say a
month ago.
>> Yeah. I think your strategy works better
in a country where there is a broader
sort of a more free press etc. Right.
>> One of the and you've you guys have
probably seen the flood of op-eds coming
out. I think the Wall Street Journal
bureau chief back there [snorts] wrote a
very very spirited piece in defense of
the country because it's a very easy
place to take shots at, right? And we've
probably taken a couple here in this
episode. It's a very easy place to take
shots at because a lot of people are
judging the bargain from the American
lens or let's call it the the lens of
the depraved west. That is not the
bargain. They don't care about you, Joe,
to be honest. what they care about is
like a a wealthy person who does not
care so much about the sort of the
broader western ideals and only cares
about the western ideal of capitalism
and then they will provide all the other
things we talked about safety high
quality of life in in one sense etc. So
that's very much the case. I I think
that we tend to be as people who've been
in the West for a long time tend to be
more concerned that we don't get to see
the truth as much as, you know, they
don't seem to care as much.
>> What do people really care about? Just
having a safe, chill place to live. And
the UAE does that better than pretty
much anyone.
>> Yeah. But I mean, there is a tension
here at the moment where you could argue
that if you're a citizen on the ground,
like you would like to be more informed
about missiles flying around. I know
they have an alert system. Um, but also
since you mentioned Instagram, I'm now
thinking about geotagging. We know that
a lot of the geoloccation services in
Dubai and Abu Dhabi aren't working at
the moment because they're getting
jammed
>> because uh they don't want Iranian
drones to know where they're going and
vice versa. So like there is
thisformational problem andformational
control problem. But I just want to talk
for a second about where golf money has
actually been flowing uh externally in
the world because this has been a big
story but still an underappreciated one
I think
>> defining story of the investment
landscape of the last 10 years.
>> Yeah. Okay. Talk to us about it.
>> Okay. So just broadly GCC sovereigns
collectively so it's called the big four
the big five
>> manage close to $6 trillion in AUM. that
represents more than 40% of the global
sovereign wealth fund total right and
increasingly so I think in the 90s uh
they were probably mostly focused on
fixed income right US bonds being uh a
big part of the equation I think
starting in the 2000s and definitely in
the 2020s they've been flowing towards
let's call it more exotic alts right
they're in crypto they're massively
invested in in venture capital and at
the highest highest level uh they're
obviously incredibly large real estate
investors both as LP so limited partners
in deals but also increasingly in what's
known as GP staking which is when you
buy a piece of a black rockck let's say
right and and the uh PIF who oh yeah so
when PNC sold a 14 billion stake in
Black Rockck around in the pandemic at
some point the buyers were Moubadla KIA
which is Kuwait QIA which is Qatar and
PIF which is Saudi right So they are all
over the tentacles are so incredibly
well spread into all aspects of the
global economy especially in the United
States. And I think one question that I
have and I'm sure a lot of people have
as this conflict drags on is will that
spigot stop or at least tighten up,
right? Because I think you wrote about
it in your newsletter recently. Petrol
dollars are essentially what creates
this
>> this this giant pool of money, right?
And
right now. Let's say hopefully the
conflict ends in the next couple weeks.
If if that is the case, the UA can very
quickly get out of this hole because it
probably has the best functioning
government in the modern era. If this
goes on for months and and longer, then
you have to have those question. I mean,
I think it would be really interesting
to talk to a fund manager right now and
and see what kind of conversations
they're having with PIF, Mabudla and the
likes cuz those conversations and we
like to say investors like certainty and
and this ain't it, right?
>> Okay. There have been the hits to some
energy infrastructure like why does it
change? How much do you perceive that
this story of lots of money coming in
because people carry it in their pockets
and then lots of money going out because
it enters these huge funds that are
funding everything from uh AI to
infrastructure to all kinds of things.
So far in this war is there anything
that disrupts the trajectory of that
model?
>> So far in this war there hasn't been
anything that shows like hey this is the
party's going to stop. I think the cutie
example that I pointed to is the first
one and I said wow they're talking about
17% of export capacity that is very
serious at some point if not already QIA
has to be brought into the room and say
okay let let's assess the situation
right I would imagine this would come up
and then there are these long-term bets
I think you had one of my favorites on
at some point Zad to talk about yeah
he's so good
>> he's incredible we're going to get him
on again for sure
>> and just for listeners he's our
colleague here at Bloomberg. Uh he's in
Bloomberg economics, right? And so, yes,
we're going to try and have him on ASAP.
>> He's incredible. I think I first heard
about him on Sultano Kasami's cultural
much list, which really fun thing that
he used to do that he's restarting. But
anyway, you guys had talked to Zad about
the UAE's $35 billion investment into
kind of the Egyptian coastal
development, etc., right?
>> Yes. Those kind of bets are where I
would say, okay, what is that's just
sort of a
a commitment made to doing things in the
future, right? It's it's like a $35
billion number that's going to probably
going to be over a couple of decades or
so.
>> When you make those kind of claims or
you make that kind of commitment and you
see all the stuff happening with your
own in your own home, maybe there's some
talk of redeployment, holding back, etc.
I think those are the the big things. A
lot of the other money we're talking
about, and we'll talk about private
credit in a minute, has already been
committed, deployed, etc., right? But
the scale of the UAE specifically's
investment in this, let's call it the
frontiers of the new economy, I don't
think is fully appreciated. I mean, MGX,
which is a state-owned, state controlled
shikun controls this giant sprawling web
of at least a $1.5 trillion pool of
money. The various funds stitched
together from Abu Dhabi. It is in
everything. It's it's absolutely in
everything. And again, this is again a
question of how long the conflict will
go on. I'm not a an expert on that. But
if this drags on for a bit, there has to
be some reckoning with how that money is
flowing.
[music]
if we actually see an exodus from Dubai
and
>> in terms of population mean
>> in terms of population and anecdotally I
certainly have seen people leaving in
recent weeks um it's hard to tell if you
know if they're going to leave forever
or if they're just planning on departing
during the worst of the conflict but if
we were to see an exodus from Dubai and
presumably real estate prices would be
impacted from that that could be the
line of entry where you start to get
more pressure on government finances,
right?
>> Yeah. I I think more than any other city
probably in the world, Dubai is in the
sentiment business, right? The sentiment
business, right? Their primary sources
of revenue are real estate, tourism, and
commerce. Right? Those are the three and
those are all sentiment-based
industries. Uh, in fact, I don't think
I've seen I haven't heard personally of
any departures in the way that I
remember in the the first Gulf War in
the 90s, there was a flood of people
that left. I think that if anything, the
UA is kind of being more tested now than
back then. But I think they've done a
really good job of creating long-term
incentives this time around for people
to stick around. Things like the Golden
Visa, which is very similar to the EV5
Visa or the Trump Gold card. It's kind
of modeled on on the golden visa. Things
like property rights, uh, a more robust
legal system. They've put all those
things together. Now, if people do
leave,
>> what does that look like? First of all,
uh, real estate prices, people have been
talking about a correction in the UAE
for a long time. If people start
leaving, that is certainly going to be
on the table, right? And then the the
kind of the back infrastructure of
financing a lot of these projects will
be tested the bond market the Islamic
financing market etc. that's when things
will start getting shaky and again one
of the things that is uh Dubai's got a
very very p uh very robust private
markets economy now but at some point or
the other there is some government
involvement in that right either by
backstopping or being an LP in many
things etc uh I I don't know I think
Tracy you'll I don't know where stands
now but at some point it was very much
an arm of the state now
>> yeah I
>> yes I think that's Yeah. So, I think
we'll be if we do see an actual exodus
or an outflux, then there's a lot of
questions to be asked about the
stability of that market. And again,
this is an absolutely insane market. So,
things have been selling off plan. There
are stories out there about $800 million
worth of product selling in a single
day, right? That is a momentum driven
like I need to get in while this market
is still semiafordable. And by
semi-affordable I think one of our the
reason we connected in the first place
is that you have to look at the ultra
luxury market in the world as a
collection of properties as opposed to
compare them to local comps right and at
that level uh if you look at it from
that level
>> Dubai Abu Dhabi etc are still a relative
bargain right so
this all really is contingent on it
maintaining its demand from very wealthy
people and safety is obviously see that
that X factor in all of that.
>> You could make the argument that the UAE
has the best functioning government in
the world. And I think this is very
important because particularly in the
West that is not a comment that will be
uttered in a million years in the United
States, in the UK, in France, in Europe,
etc. I mean, the idea of a functioning
government feels almost like a
>> what's that? Well, those words don't
even go together anymore. Could you
explain a little bit um you know how
that works? We often think that uh
governments particularly non-democracies
are riven with corruption and have no
accountability and so forth and there
are there are all kinds of reasons on
paper to think that that would be
impossible. How would you describe the
sort of organizing principle of the
government such that it doesn't it
doesn't collapse whatever it is what is
it about how it's structured where
actually public sector is taken very
seriously and effective
>> okay that's a that's a heavy question
but let's let's try right uh there's two
elements to this one is a functioning
society in which things just seem to
work
>> and and the UAE government has done
probably again an incredible job at
doing that. Uh you want to set up a
business, you can do it. You want to
make money, it's yours. No one takes it
away from you. This has always been
true, etc. Right? If a crime happens, it
is handled very quickly. That's one part
of it, right? That's the actual tangible
on the ground. They build roads all the
time. You can see the progress. There's
never a pothole in sight. You will never
see any vagrants. You will never see any
violent crime, etc. So that is the as a
person living here that makes half a
million dollars a year and expects a
certain quality of life, the government
is giving me that quality of life.
That's one part of it. The other part of
it is a little more state crafty, right?
Which is the illusion that is created
that this is the best government in the
world. The illusion that is created that
this is the safest place in the world
and then is repeated and amplified by
everyone who lives there because that's
part of the deal, right? You go there,
anyone and and again they do an
incredible job of of creating that
society. Everyone from athletes to
actors to footballers etc. will throw in
a plug for Dubai randomly, seemingly
randomly in any conversation they have.
And and I think part of this is because
there's gratitude and part of it is
because it seems like that's part of the
deal. Let's go back to um private credit
for a second because this is one of the
reasons we really wanted to talk to you
because a lot of that money, you know,
direct lending has has found its way
into your world in various ways.
>> It's hard to gauge how active or how big
the GCC presence in that market has
been, but what's your sense of it?
>> I think it's u it's been fairly large
and only growing. And I think a good
example to look at is something like
Mabadla, right? Muda is one of the more
prominent I think it's $350 billionish
AUM uh but is incredibly aggressive in
the private credit space. They recently
did a full takeover of Fortress which is
a big player in commercial real estate
credit. Uh they have been and I think we
talked about this in your in your
newsletter as well. Abu Dhabi in general
has been getting very much into the debt
game not only directly by purchasing
companies like Fortress but also by
being an anchor LP in a lot of the
private credit funds that we see right
so
BlackRock uh and I think this this all
comes back to a trend that we like to
call AUM goblin right so
>> you cannot there's no such thing as a
good midsize fund anymore everyone's got
to be Brookfield or everyone's got to be
Blackstone and So, Six Street, I think
Fortress, uh, this co-CEO made the
statement which is like for us to stay
relevant, we need to keep growing
assets. It's not enough to run the book
that we have and do it well. We just
have to keep gobbling up other parts of
things. So, if you had a dedicated fund,
let's say you had a senior housing, an
affordable housing fund, you're doing
very well. You have $2 billion you're
running, you're incredibly good at that.
Eventually, the call comes in from a
fortress or a sixth street, etc., and
you're picked up. to make these kind of
things happen, you need an incredible
amount of liquidity capital and all
roads lead to Abu Dhabi when it comes to
that kind of thing, right? So, uh,
Bloomberg had an amazing article about
how to how to meet the world's one half
trillion dollar man, I think it was
called, and it was about Shik Dun and
his entire web of companies and amazing
uh that kind of figure. And once you're
in with someone like the Sheh or one of
his deputies, you have access to kind of
unlimited amount of capital. Larry Frink
is in Abu Dhabi what I I would venture
to guess every month. Ray Dalio, there's
that iconic shot of him in the Condor
sitting there at the table with all the
movers and shakers. Uh they have they
have sort of infiltrated every aspect of
private credit when it comes to real
estate. The name keeps coming up and if
the name doesn't come up directly, it
comes up as a backer of a lot of these
companies that we talked about. AI
infrastructure. PIF, I believe, is the
anchor investor in Black uh Blackstone,
I'm sorry. And PIF is the anchor
investor in Blackstone's infrastructure
fund, which is their quote lens into the
AI boom. MGX is a partner in this uh
really stop and start government
project, the US government called
Stargate,
uh with Open AI, etc. It's had a bit of
a mixed run, but MGX is an anchor
investor in that. MGX is also an
investor with Microsoft and Black Rockck
in that giant AI venture, right? So
there's just
the the odds that Abu Dhabi or one of
the Middle Easterns is involved when it
comes to these big infrastructure bets
is very high.
>> The Gulf States didn't ask for this war,
at least the vast majority. talk to us
about sort of regional politics and
obviously you know we know that it may
have been his first foreign visit right
since taking uh the presidency Trump
quickly went to the Gulf and you know
even at the
>> sword dance the iconic sword dance
thing. Oh yeah, the the orb.
>> That wasn't the first trump. Yeah, but
still same same deal. You get this
impression
>> that like [laughter]
Trump has golf tastes, right? That
>> I mean even even before all this, right,
he his brand was actually So the way
that people in New York think of the
Trump brand is tacky luxury. Tacky
luxury. Right. In the Gulf, it's thought
of as luxury luxury.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Uh it's it's always been there.
They're sympatico in so many ways. Uh
from kind of having incredible control
over their societies, which is something
that our president has has always kind
of aspired to, right?
>> And some would say he's he's doing
pretty well on that front. But uh
there's always been that kind of
sympatico between Donald Trump and the
Gulf leaders. Uh there has been some
friction on the front recently though.
>> Well, this is what I'm trying this is
what I'm getting at. Like could that
change again? massive damage to their
domestic economies for a war that they
certainly didn't ask for. Is there any
prospect of in the wake of this whenever
that ends some slightly new trajectory
between the US and the Gulf?
>> Impossible to tell if the war drags on,
but for now I don't think so. I think
they've been pretty in lock step with um
pretty in lock step with the US's policy
on this. Right. There's there's been
reports and this is above my pay grade
and above my beat but there's been
reports that Saudi was very much pushing
for this this
one exception you sort of get the
impression that Saudi was also one of
>> right and then the GC movers
>> correct the GCC countries often don't
see eye to eye especially on Iran right
there's there's fair amount of friction
between the two powerhouses the UAE and
Saudi Arabia on a lot of geopolitical
issues they're they're brothers but kind
of not right as well. Um, and there's a
lot of rivalry in general for capital
and the the joke I think even when Tracy
lived there was probably you you lived
in Dubai and you would go consult in Abu
Dhabi sorry in Saudi for 4 days a week.
That's not so much the thing anymore.
Saudi's been pushing people to live
there and you know upon threat of losing
business etc. But I think back to this
fracture or potential fracture between
the US government and the GCC, we
haven't seen anything from government
level friction yet. We have seen though
a couple of very influential businessmen
Khalif Hur who was a big developer
player in the in the UAE had had put out
a letter kind of excoriating Trump for
starting this conflict
>> at the behest of at the behest of
Israel. Right. And this was a this was a
big big deal for a a statesman level
businessman in the UAE to to talk about
this. The letter was at some point
redacted, right? And then and then
aldapur sat down with the Washington
Post and did this incredibly
entertaining interview about, you know,
it's more about kind of the cohesion for
the long term, etc. doesn't agree with
the war, but I think in general pissing
off your American allies at this point
is not good, etc., etc. So, we have seen
some of that. Now again Joe your
question is really about how long this
lasts. Uh for now they can kind of keep
things going but if this is a monthsl
long conflict or longer god forbid then
then then there might be a little bit
more of a fracture. Right.
Just on that note, what are you watching
in terms of I guess gauging the overall
health of the Dubai property market, but
also the overall health or circulation
of uh of that oil money in in the wider
property space.
>> So on the first one about the overall
health of the Dubai property market, I
think one thing you want to pay
attention to is [clears throat] if any
planned or announced projects, if they
are kind of continuing on the timeline
that they talked about. Again, a lot of
these depend kind of like Miami's
economy on pre-sales, right? They they
they get commitments and then they go
build the thing. And the the views, I
mean, the these things get more and more
fantastical. Tracy, this is very much
for you. There is one I'm going to pull
it up. Hang on. There's a tower that's
coming up which is called Iwa, which is
a 21story res a 21story residential
tower designed to look like the
Hallelujah Mountains from the Avatar
movies. [laughter] Right. That's coming.
>> Wait, why do you say that once for me?
>> Because you love this stuff. You've
always wanted
>> Yeah, I do. I do. I like I I wouldn't
want to live there, but I like hearing
about it for sure.
>> They're are doing a lot of interesting
uh innovations with engineering and
design. They're doing Manhattanike
skinny super talls now as well. So, they
have a they have a a tower coming up
that's a 17 to1 height to width ratio,
which is the kind of skinny pencil tower
that you would see on Billionaire's Row.
>> Yeah. But on Billionaires Row, land is
such a crazy constraint in Dubai. It
hasn't really been until until more
recent.
>> That's wild to think that they're doing
that now that like that's that's how far
it's gotten.
>> Well, I think it's a [laughter]
I think it's a little bit of both. I
think it is one a financial constraint
that they're trying to solve for and the
other like, hey, if this is, you know,
this is all the rage in New York, then
why not do it here? uh with with with
the government or with the sorry with
the UAE. It's hard to tell when it's
being done for sort of financial
prudence and when it's being done
because someone else somewhere else did
it.
>> What has been the strategy? I mean,
okay, the ultra rich going
[clears throat]
moving to moving to the Gulf, moving to
the GCC states. How active is the push
um by to get just the merely rich or the
sort of uh you know as they would say
the mass affluent etc. Has there been a
push to sort of like make more people
around the world aware of the fact that
they can move to Dubai and cut their tax
bill and live a much more comfortable
life in better weather.
>> I would say it's almost a strategic
imperative of the government. It is such
a big initiative to get not just your
Ray Dalios of the world which is much
more of a personal relationship, banking
relationship, but [clears throat] to get
those families that are down for this
lifestyle to come over. When you enter
the Dubai airport now, which is one of
the busiest airports in the world, you
will see these giant, absolutely giant
interactive ads about all ethnicities.
You used to see typically you would see
white people in these ads. right now. I
I just went a couple months ago or a
month ago.
>> You're seeing Usuzbcks. You're seeing
Canadians, you know, and and it says
specifically Canadians, this is your
Dubai. Usbex, this is your Dubai, etc.
They are pushing this beyond. I wouldn't
I wouldn't be surprised if there's like
an arm of the government dedicated just
to what you're talking about.
>> And just going back to thinking about,
you know, warning signs of trouble
ahead. What are you looking for in that
global capital space?
A lot of these conversations happen
behind closed doors, but I think one of
the things that we're doing is talking
to fund managers and seeing if there's
any kind of hesitance uh expressed by
these LPs, right? Whether it's in
staking conversations or backing funds,
that's that's probably where you're
going to see the most pressure, which is
not now. And in fundraising, not now is
as good as no, right? So if you start
seeing those conversations where God
knows Brookfield is going to raise
another distress credit fund and the
conversations with Abu Dhabi or with
Saudi etc get a little bit more uh a
little bit more wishy-washy that is
something definitely to look out for
right because without
without ongoing constant momentum
this doesn't work and and the and the
scale of capital needed I think the a
great example is that Oh god, if that
Electronic Arts LBO deal was going on
now, the EA Sports, formerly EA Sports
Electronic Arts,
>> it was a $55 billion LBO, which I
believe is the largest in history.
[music] It was brokered randomly by
Jared Fricken Kushner, right? And PIF
wrote a $29 billion equity check into
this transaction to take, I think,
majority control of EA. Would that deal
have happened in this environment? I
venture to say it would have taken a
little bit longer.
All right, we're [music] going to have
to leave it there, but this has been a
fantastic conversation. Thank you so
much for coming back on. Really
appreciate it.
>> My pleasure. Thank you, Tracy. Thanks,
[music] Joe.
>> Joe, obviously a lot that stood out from
that conversation, but one of the things
I was thinking was that sort of flywheel
dynamic that Hiten was talking about
towards the end and also just the
interrelatedness of all of this. So I I
think that one of the difficulties is if
you're a sovereign wealth fund in Abu
Dhabi or Dubai at the moment and you've
invested a lot in private credit, a lot
in tech, those areas even independently
of what's happening in the Gulf, there
are concerns around that at the moment,
right? And then if you think that well
maybe the UAE won't be able to sell as
much oil as it has in the past or maybe
some of that tax and tourism revenue is
going to start going down because there
are drone strikes in various cities.
>> That's I think where you start to get
the potential for some real weakness.
>> Yeah. I mean, you just think like how
much does it really take to change the
trajectory and does it, you know, could
it be as simple as a meaningful
downshift?
Let's say the [clears throat] war ends
fairly soon, but you know, what if you
had a year or two in the wake of it
where there was a significant decrease
in the amount of capital flowing into
the region relative to what's expected?
What are the ripple effects of that? And
again, you know, it's hard to get really
good information from what you said in
the beginning, and I think this is
really key. I do think
>> it's hard to tell from the outside world
does like you see plenty of pictures
where it all sort of looks the same, but
you don't really know about the truth of
it. And I think right now in this moment
there are probably plenty of people say,
you know what, I like the idea of moving
from England. And I think it's really
big. It's it's actually like you our
government doesn't pay attention to
anything big going on domestically or
whatever. I know that this is a very big
part of UK politics right now. The
flight of the welloff who they're
already under a tremendous fiscal
strain. And if you have money and you
don't like the fact that half of your
money is going to the government and all
of these sort of pathologies and
dysfunctions that we see in the UK, it
has become an extremely popular option
to just decamp to Dubai.
>> But this is the other thing. If if
you're targeting if you're trying to
attract an extremely wealthy mobile
population into your city, the the
converse of that is that they can leave,
right? like if if for whatever reason
they don't feel safe or they just think
like you know what now is the time for a
really long vacation somewhere else in
the world they can go
>> and I really think that again you know
this meme the glo there's going to be a
point where there is this global
permanent underclass which is a phrase
and I do feel as though
Dubai is ground zero for this phenomenon
where you have an extremely rich welloff
so uh part of the for a society that has
ev access to every luxury experience
that you could possibly think of and
then there is this layer of people that
will never ascend to that despite living
in the same country. It does not seem
like a place where you could quote work
your way up.
>> Yeah. Um I have to say you know uh Hiten
mentioned also the sort of um like UAE
legends like the Horatio algers of the
UAE. I still remember a big one was this
Indian guy called BR Shetty.
>> Mhm.
>> Does that name ring a bell? No.
>> So he built this huge uh medical company
called NMC and then it turned out to be
a massive fraud and but he was like the
guy that people would point to as you
know you can make it here.
>> Anyway, we can keep going on.
>> Chen is just the best. I love I I love
talking to him.
>> All right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there. This has been
another episode of the Odd Thoughts
podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alaway.
>> And I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Hitsamani. He's at hit Sami. Follow our
producers Carmen Rodriguez at Karman
Armano Bennett atbot. And Kalebrooks at
Kalebrooks. And for more OddLots
content, go to bloomberg.com/odlots.
We have a daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics 247 in our Discord, [music]
discord.g. GG/Oddlots.
>> And if you enjoy OddLotss, if [music]
you like it when Joe muses about the
default Miami man, then please leave us
a positive review on your favorite
podcast platform. And remember, if you
are a Bloomberg subscriber, [music] you
can listen to all of our episodes
absolutely adree. All you need to do is
find the Bloomberg channel on Apple
[music] Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
>> [music]
>> Hey.
Hey. [music]